# Response to Blumenstock
Sayyed Hadi Razmjo
January 27th

Joshau Blumenstock asserts that big data algorithms can be helpful in many different ways. He uses the algorithms used by tech giants such as Facebook and Google used to detect and match resources with the people in need. This in turn, creates a map in which governments can track and locate people in need and help them to distribute aid carefully and accurately. These digital footprints also help societies to improve public health and epidemics, for example, data scientists have used phone and internet data to find out which individuals and societies were damaged the most by natural disasters. Big data fosters research and eases the process in which people have to go through to find out the required data in order to prevent and/or neutralize an issue. 
However there are some drawbacks to using big data analysis. First of all, the solutions generated by the big data analysis can potentially favor those who are wealthy (empowered) rather than people who are indeed in need. Data can be manipulated by individuals who have the power to drive value from the data. Moreover, the lack of validation and regulation makes the data imperfect as well. Since a lot of these data are collected by private companies, it is also possible that biased algorithms were incorporated in collection of big data. 
Blumenstock suggests ways to counter these issues including:
1. customization of the algorithms and patterns used to collect data
2. Foster collaboration among scientists, government agencies, private companies, and other organizations. 
3. Validation of old data with newer versions of data collected; in other words, new data should complement older data. 

Good intent and transparency are both crucial factors to development of data science. I agree with both statements that good intent is not enough since other external factors might manipulate people to change the context and foundations of the data which in turn damages the whole database. Good intent should be accompanied with strong will and commitment to truth and honesty at any price. Transparency of data can also address a lot of issues because it allows all the users to see when, where, why, how, and by whom data was used. Regarding the third statement, I should agree as well. When handling issues to remove hindrances on the path of promoting applications of data science considering the development of human development, it could be diffcult to balance between different situations or requirements. 
